Nowadays, the problem of juvenile delinquency has become the third major social problem after environmental pollution, drug trafficking and drug addiction, which has aroused the strong concern of all countries in the world. China is no exception, juvenile delinquency in our country has shown new characteristics such as younger age and gangs. According to Ilinur Azezi’s article, the total number of juvenile delinquency has heightened for accounting for more than 70% of the total number of crimes, which was accounted for less than 20% in the 1950s [1](statistics). As the problem has become more and more serious, the socialists and jurists are learning more about its causes. They have found that the juvenile delinquency can result from physiological factors, family factors and social factors.
The inevitable factor is the physiological changing. As we all know, the adolescents are experiencing the transition from children to adults which psychologists call puberty. During this period, the adolescents’ bodies began to develop while their minds are still immature. In her article “Current situation, causes and preventive measures of juvenile delinquency”, Ilynur Aizezi states that teenagers are susceptible to the temptations, and they are inclined to pursue their selfish desires which may result illegal and criminal acts[2](facts).
A second cause of juvenile delinquency is their family. Family has great influence on teenagers, Rosemary Kakonzi Mwangangi in his article “The Role of Family in Dealing with Juvenile Delinquency” discusses that the parental attitudes, the degree of family cohesion, the physical violence, and the uninvolved parenting may heighten the probability of juvenile delinquency, because the family plays an important role in inculcating norms and values within teenagers[3](summary). Conceivably, children raised by such family are more probable to commit a crime in a young age.
In fact, the social factors also matter in youth crime. In his article “An Analysis of the Causes of Juvenile Delinquency” Xiong YQ shows that at present many books, newspapers, audio-visual products are full of feudal superstitions, murder and violence, pornography and other unhealthy content, which has caused serious mental pollution to teenagers[4](facts). For instance, violence appear in movies have negative influence on teenagers and thus lead them to more criminal offenses. According to article “Impact of Violence in Movies on Juvenile Delinquency” written by Naima Saeed, Tansif Ur Rehman and Mehmood Ahmed Usmani, in Pakistan teenagers who are exposed to the violent movies have been influenced by long-term effects, as a result, some of them will experience the desensitization of violence, enactive learning and commit a crime in real lives ultimately[5](summary).
Juvenile delinquency does great harm mainly to their physical and mental health and the social order. To themselves, committing crimes will lead them to suffer physical and mental trauma, which will destroy their future development. In his article “Discussing the Meaning, Characteristics, Reasons and Countermeasures of Juvenile Delinquency”, Yu WM writes that juvenile delinquency have caused numerous negative effects to themselves, for instance, drug crimes seriously damage the mental and physical health of teenagers[6](facts). On the social level, youth crime have disturbed the social order and caused serious security problems. Yu WM in his article “Discussing the Meaning, Characteristics, Reasons and Countermeasures of Juvenile Delinquency” mentions that in 1996, teenagers’ crimes included Extortion of 1.3 million Yuan and arson which caused 32 deaths, 6 injures and  economic losses of 4 million Yuan[7](statistics). In a word, juvenile delinquency should not be underestimated.
In conclusion, juvenile delinquency has physiological factors, family factors and social factors. Some causes are inevitable but others are preventable, and since the problem of juvenile delinquency has become more and more grim, it is time for us to do more to care for teenagers and protect them from committing crimes.